Welcome back.
In this video we're going to take a look at how we can use Reduce to return different data types like
strings and objects.
Here we have an array called names and have assigned it to be an array of strings with the values.
Tim Matt Holt and Ellie.
Our goal is to take this array and return a single string which outputs the instructors are Tim Matt
called Ellie will reduce this array and pass in a callback function.
Let's not worry too much about what we return inside of the callback function.
Let's just take a look at the second parameter which is the string.
The instructors are.
This is going to be the value of the accumulator in the first iteration as we iterate through the array.
We want to keep building up the string.
So we're going to return the accumulator plus equals an empty space and the next value if you're not
sure what we're doing here that's OK let's break it down step by step in the first iteration the value
of accumulator is the instructors are and the value of next value is the string.
TIM So when we concatenate or add these strings together with the space the return value will be the
instructors are Tim.
We now return.
The instructors are Tim which means the value of the accumulator in the next iteration will be the instructors
are Tim and next value will be met when we add those two strings together we return.
The instructors are Tim Matt and that will be the value of the accumulator in the next iteration and
next value will be called will then return.
The instructors are Tim Matt colt and that will be the value of the accumulator in the final iteration
will then return the accumulator Plus the string L.E. for a final return value of the instructors or
Tim.
Matt cold Ellie This may seem strange at first but the more you practice with it the easier it will
get.
Let's look at one more example.
Before we practice with some exercises Let's create an array of numbers called Our with the values 5
4 1 4 and 5 imagine that we want to build an object with the key as each number and the value as the
count of each number in the array.
This is an efficient way to see if there are any duplicates or to count how many occurrences of a value
exist in an array what we would need to do here is reduce our array into an object.
So let's reduce our array and pass in as a second parameter an empty object in our function.
We'll need to see if the value we're at already exists as a key in the object.
One of the ways to check if the key exists in an object is to use an if in condition.
So we'll see if next value is in accumulator and if it is we will increase the value at that key by
1.
Notice we're using bracket notation because we want javascript to evaluate next value for us and not
hard code a key of next round.
If that does not exist then the object left at the keys of the object with the value of whatever next
value is and assign it to the number 1.
Finally the most important step is to make sure we keep returning that object that we build up let's
see what this looks like when we step through it in the first iteration the value of accumulator will
be an empty object and next value will be the number five.
Since our object does not have a key of five we will add a key of 5 and a value of 1 will then return
that object in the second iteration accumulator is the object returned to us with a key of 5 and a value
of 1 and next value is the number four.
Just like before our object does not have a key or for select Add a new key a for and a value of 1 and
return that object in the next iteration.
Next value was 1.
And since we don't have that key either we add a new key of one with the value of 1.
We now return an object with the keys of 5 4 and 1 in the next iteration.
Next value is four.
But our object already has a key of four.
So what increment that value by one and return an object with a key of five and value of one here for
and value of two and of one value of one.
We're building up a counter for each number in the final iteration.
Next value is five.
And since we already have a key of five we'll increment the value by one and return an object with a
key of five and a value of two.
A key a four and a value of two and a key of one and a value of 1 since there is no next you.
This object is returned from reduce and we're all done.
As you can see the more you can step through each Kabaka produce the easier it will be to understand
what's going on.
Krome developer tools are wonderful for this as is just trying to diagram or write down what's happening
in each function.
Before we practice with traduce Let's see how we can use it in our own functions.
Here we have a function called some odd numbers which is going to accept an array of numbers and return
the sum of the audience.
Our accumulator starts at zero and is either going to be itself plus the next value if the next value
is odd or just itself.
If that statement is not true when we invoke it on our array we see a total of nine.
Let's see another function called create for name which accepts an array.
Here we are reducing this array into another array and adding to it the value of the first property
and the last property on each value in the array.
We're assuming here that we're passing in an array of objects that have a first and last property when
we invoke this with our array of objects.
We'll get back an array of strings returned to us.
Now you've seen some examples with reduce and it's time for you to practice.
Good luck and I'll see you in the next video.